## Thanksgiving 2018

* I usually double this recipe as 12 rolls aren't enough for the 6 people for whom I'm usually cooking.
* I sub in dairy-free stuff due to people being lactose intolerant, but the original recipe calls for normal milk and butter.
* I don't use a mixing machine like the original recipe calls for because I prefer doing stuff by hand, but using a mixing machine is almost certainly easier.

## Ingredients/supplies
* 12-cup muffin tin
* Butter/oil for the muffin tin
* Plastic wrap
* 8 ounces soy milk (100 degrees F)
* 2 1/4 ounces sugar (about 1/3 cup)
* 1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon active dry yeast
* 15 ounces bread flour, plus extra for kneading
* 2 egg yolks
* 2 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
* 2 1/2 ounces fake butter, at room temperature

## Directions
1. Place the soy milk, sugar, yeast, flour, egg yolks, and salt in a bowl. Mix with a spoon or whatever for a couple minutes until there are no pockets of dry powder left.
1. Rest the dough for 10 to 15 minutes.
1. Add 2 ounces of the butter and mix until the dough pulls away from the sides of the bowl and you are able to gently pull the dough into a thin sheet that light will pass through, about 8 minutes.
1. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and roll and shape with your hands to form a large ball. Return the dough to the bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and set aside in a warm, dry place to rise until doubled in size, about 1 hour.
1. Remove the dough from the bowl and roll into a 12 by 12-inch square, about 1/2-inch thick. Melt the remaining 1/2 ounce butter and brush onto the top of the dough.
1. Coat the muffin tin with butter/oil and set aside.
1. Use a pizza cutter to cut the dough into 12 (12 by 1-inch) strips. Stack the strips into 2 stacks of 6 strips each. Lay the stacks on their sides and cut each stack into 6 (2-inch) wide pieces.
1. Lay each piece on its side into a prepared muffin tin cup. Cover with plastic wrap and set aside in a warm, dry place to rise until doubled in size, 30 to 40 minutes.
1. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F.
1. Remove the plastic wrap and bake until the rolls reach an internal temperature of 200 degrees F, 8 to 10 minutes. Rotate the pan halfway through baking.
1. Remove the muffin tin to a cooling rack and cool for 2 to 3 minutes before serving.
