## Thanksgiving 2022

## Ingredients/supplies
* 32 ounces (by weight) cake flour, plus extra for kneading
* 5 ounces sugar (a bit over 2/3 cup)
* 3 tablespoons teaspoons active dry yeast
* 16 ounces whole milk (100 degrees F)
* 4 egg yolks
* 5 teaspoons kosher salt
* 2 12-cup muffin tins
* Butter/oil for the muffin tins
* Plastic wrap
* 6 ounces butter, at room temperature (this time, I used unsalted, 84% butterfat)

## Directions
1. Place the sugar, yeast, flour, salt, milk, and egg yolks in a bowl. Mix with a spoon or whatever for a couple minutes until there are no pockets of dry powder left.
1. Rest the dough for 10 to 15 minutes.
1. Add 4 ounces of the butter and mix until the dough pulls away from the sides of the bowl and you are able to gently pull the dough into a thin sheet that light will pass through, about 8 minutes.
1. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and roll and shape with your hands to form a large ball. Return the dough to the bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and set aside in a warm, dry place to rise until doubled in size, about 1 hour.
1. Remove the dough from the bowl and roll into 2 12 by 12-inch squares, about 1/2-inch thick. Melt the remaining butter and brush onto the top of the dough.
1. Coat the muffin tins with butter/oil and set aside.
1. Use a pizza cutter to cut the dough into 24 (12 by 1-inch) strips. Stack the strips into 4 stacks of 6 strips each. Lay the stacks on their sides and cut each stack into 12 (2-inch) wide pieces.
1. Lay each piece on its side into a prepared muffin tin cup. Cover with plastic wrap and set aside in a warm, dry place to rise until doubled in size, 30 to 40 minutes.
1. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F.
1. Remove the plastic wrap and bake until the rolls reach an internal temperature of 200 degrees F, 8 to 10 minutes. Rotate the pan halfway through baking.
1. Remove the muffin tin to a cooling rack and cool for 2 to 3 minutes before serving.
