## Strawberry cake

From [Sally's Baking Addiction](https://sallysbakingaddiction.com/strawberry-cake/), with minor modifications.

I also used [this Sugar Geek Show recipe](https://sugargeekshow.com/recipe/strawberry-cake-recipe/) for inspiration.

### Ingredients

* 290g (about 2 and 1/2 cups) cake flour (weighed)
* 2 teaspoons baking powder
* 1/2 teaspoon baking soda
* 1 teaspoon salt
* 3/4 cup (1.5 sticks; 170g) unsalted butter, softened to room temperature
* 350g (about 1 and 3/4 cups) granulated sugar (weighed)
* 5 large egg whites, at room temperature
* 1/3 cup (75g) Icelandic Provisions Strawberry & Lingonberry Skyr, at room temperature (obviously other types of yogurt would also work, this is just what I'm using)
* 1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
* 1/2 cup (120ml) heavy whipping cream, at room temperature
* 3/4 cup reduced strawberry puree
* 8 drops red and 2 drops pink food coloring
* 1 teaspoon strawberry emulsion and 1/4 teaspoon lemon emulsion
* 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice

### Instructions

#### Two days before the cake is needed

1. Make the reduced strawberry puree and allow it to cool completely. Thaw before using in the recipe.

#### Morning of the day before the cake is needed

1. Preheat the oven to 350°F (177°C). Grease and lightly flour two 8-inch cake pans.
2. Whisk the cake flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt together. Set aside.
3. Using a handheld or stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, beat the butter and sugar together on high speed until smooth and creamed, about 2 minutes. Scrape down the sides and up the bottom of the bowl with a rubber spatula as needed. 
4. Beat in the egg whites on high speed until combined, about 2 minutes.
5. Then beat in the sour cream and vanilla extract. Scrape down the sides and up the bottom of the bowl as needed. 
6. With the mixer on low speed, add the dry ingredients until just incorporated. 
7. With the mixer still running on low, slowly pour in the milk *just* until combined. Do not overmix. 
8. Whisk in 1/2 cup of reduced strawberry puree, making sure there are no lumps at the bottom of the bowl. The batter will be slightly thick. 
9. Stir in food coloring, if desired. (I use 1 small drop.)
10. Pour batter evenly into cake pans. 
11. Bake for around 24-25 minutes or until the cakes are baked through. To test for doneness, insert a toothpick into the center of the cake. If it comes out clean, it is done. 
12. Allow cakes to cool completely in the pans set on a wire rack. The cakes must be completely cool before frosting and assembling.

#### Evening of the day before the cake is needed

1. First, using a large serrated knife, slice a thin layer off the tops of the cakes to create a flat surface. Discard (or crumble over ice cream!). 
2. Place 1 cake layer on your cake stand or serving plate. 
3. Evenly cover the top with frosting. 
4. Top with 2nd layer and spread the remaining frosting all over the top and sides. 
5. Refrigerate for at least 45 minutes before slicing (I'd recommend overnight). This helps the cake keep its shape when cutting– it could slightly fall apart without time in the fridge.
