# InstantPot Dal Tadka, with spice and allium

Updated to be spicier and have onion/garlic. Also switched to celery for the vegetable because I'm out of carrots, and decreased the amount of water because it was a bit too liquidy last time.

## Ingredients

### Base ingredients:

* 178g chopped celery
* 200g moong dal
* 2 cups water, plus more for soaking the moong dal
* 2 tbsp oil
* 14.5-oz can of petite diced tomatoes
* A bit of chopped fresh cilantro for garnishing

### Spices:

All the dried-and-in-a-jar-from-the-store kind, not the fancier and tastier fresh kind.

* 1 tsp kosher salt
* 1/2 tsp garlic powder
* 1/2 tsp onion powder
* 1/4 tsp ginger
* 1/4 tsp cumin
* 1/4 tsp cardamom
* 1/4 tsp coriander
* 1/4 tsp turmeric
* 1/4 tsp smoked paprika
* 1/2 tsp Kashmiri chili powder
* A few twists of finely-ground black pepper

## Instructions

1. Soak the moong dal in water for 15 minutes (I ended up soaking it for 20-30 minutes because that's how long it took to clean the kitchen and then cook the precursor ingredients).
2. Set your InstantPot to "saute" and put in the oil and celery. Cook for five-ten minutes or so until they start to look different.
3. Add the spices and mix well. Continue sauteing for a few minutes.
4. Turn off the instant pot and add the water. Add it quickly, as if you just pour in a tiny bit it'll boil and splatter oil everywhere. Pouring it all in cools the oil down quickly enough that it shouldn't splatter much.
5. Drain the moong dal and add it to the pot.
6. Add the can of diced tomatoes to the pot.
7. Pressure cook on High for 10 minutes, then let it sit for 15 minutes before flipping the steam release knob. It may be fine to release the pressure sooner; that's just how long I let it sit because I was working on other stuff.
8. Ladle over rice or whatever your preferred kinda-bland starch is, and top with cilantro (if you like it).
