# Bagels

## Supplies
* Large bowl
* Mixing spoon
* Baking tray
* Baking steel
* Parchment paper
* 1 Teaspoon
* 1 Tablespoon
* 1 Measuring cup
* 1/4 Measuring cup

## Ingredients

* 3 1/2 cups bread flour 
* 2 tablespoons sugar 
* 1 teaspoon active dry yeast
* 1 tablespoon fine sea salt
* 1 1/4 cup water, 105 degrees F
* 2 Tbsp Baking Soda
* 2 Tbsp Honey (sugar, molasses, malt, etc)- OPTIONAL

## Instructions

1. In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, sugar, yeast and salt.
2. Make a well in the center of the dry ingredients and pour in the water. 
3. Mix with a wooden spoon to just combine, then knead the dough by hand on a lightly floured countertop or cutting board for about 5 minutes, until it is smooth and elastic. 
4. Put the dough in bowl and cover with a clean, damp kitchen towel or plastic wrap.
5. Allow to rise until the dough has just about doubled in size.
6. Preheat your oven to 425 degrees F for 45-60 minutes with your Baking Steel inside. 
7. Punch the dough down.
8. Let it rest for another 10 minutes. 
9. Divide the dough into 8 equal balls.
10. Coat a finger in flour, and poke a hole into the center of each dough ball, gently stretching the hole with your fingers to form a traditional bagel shape.
11. After shaping the dough rounds and placing them on a piece of parchment paper, cover with a damp kitchen towel.
12. Allow to rest for 10 minutes. 
13. Bring a large pot of water (feel free to add a little honey) to a boil with sweetener and baking soda. 
14. Put the bagels into the water. 
15. Boil for about 1 minute; the bagels will rise in the water and may bob on top. 
16. Using the slotted spoon, remove the bagels, tap to remove excess water, and transfer to a piece of parchment paper or directly onto a sheet tray that has been lightly dusted with semolina flour. 
17. If you’d like to add seeds or toppings to your bagels, now is the time: right after boiling is when they will be “stickiest” and best able to hold onto them. 
18. Either place your parchment onto a sheet tray and place on your Baking Steel, or use a pizza peel to launch the parchment sheet directly onto your Steel.
19. Bake for 14-18 minutes, rotating halfway through baking, or until golden brown. 
20. Remove from oven and transfer to a wire rack to cool completely. 
21. Cool completely.
22. Store in an airtight container for 3-5 days, or freeze for up to 1 month.
