## Ingredients

### For step 1:

* 300-360 grams of all purpose flour (start with 300; add more if it's necessary)
* 1/2 teaspoon baking soda
* 1/2 teaspoon baking powder
* 1/4 teaspoon salt
* 2 teaspoon ground ginger
* 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
* 3/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
* 1 teaspoon ground cloves
* 1/2 tsp cardamom

### For step 2:

* 115 g smart balance, melted (which I'll refer to as "butter" below because I'm lazy)
* 1/4 cup white granulated sugar
* 2 tablespoons dark brown sugar

### For step 3:

* 180 g molasses (unsulphured, not that I've ever seen another kind in the grocery store)

### For step 4:
* 1/2 tsp water (if it's too dry to form cookies)

### For step 6:

* (optional) approximately 2 tablespoons white granulated sugar to coat unbaked cookies

## Instructions

0. Preheat the oven to 350F (or 180C if you're a communist)
1. Mix all the dry stuff that isn't sugar.
2. In another bowl, mix the butter and the sugars.
3. Add the molasses to the butter/sugar mixture and mix.
4. Pour the wet stuff into the dry stuff and mix.  May take a while, and may seem a bit dry. If you can't form coookies, add a tiny bit of water.
5. Put some parchment paper on a baking sheet.
6. Form the dough into balls.  30-gram balls work well if you want a consistent texture throughout; 60 grams baked a few minutes longer will let the edges be a little crispy while the center is still soft.
7. If you want to suger-coat them, pour a bit of white granulated sugar in a small bowl.
8. If you want to suger-coat them, roll dough balls in the white sugar until thoroughly coated.
9. Place on the baking sheet.  They'll spread, leave some space, etc.  All that usual cookie-baking-related advice.
10. Bake for 12-15 minutes.  They'll puff up while baking and then deflate afterwards. If you want thinner, snappier cookies, flatten the balls down into disks 1/4-1/2 inches thick prior to baking, then bake for closer to 15 minutes.
11. Eat.
