# Rosemary bread

Inspired by [King Arthur Baking's Simple, Rustic Loaf](https://www.kingarthurbaking.com/recipes/a-simple-rustic-loaf-recipe)

## Notes

* I use a mix of active dry and instant dry yeast in this recipe, but that's likely not necessary. The active yeast is added at the beginning into the water; the instant yeast is added later into the sponge prior to adding the rest of the flour, and is used because it's easier to get it nicely dispersed into the gelatinous mass. You could probably use the same yeast for both steps and get a similar result. You could also omit the second addition and get tasty bread, it'd just be a touch less fluffy.
* I use 1/6 gluten, 5/6 flour in this recipe to make it a bit softer, but that's not necessary and you could use all flour if you don't have gluten on hand or would prefer a bit of a firmer texture.
* I add rosemary for a touch of flavor as this is mostly used for sandwiches and accompanying dinner entrees; you could use a different spice or spices or omit additional flavoring entirely if you'd prefer.
* The recipe is written using a stand mixer, but should work just fine with hand mixing and kneading if you don't have one or just prefer doing it like that. My shoulder is acting up so I finally got around to digging up the mixer my mom gave us years ago and it's super convenient being able to toss stuff in the bowl and do other chores around the kitchen while it mixes, so even though I've traditionally only hand-mixed stuff I've been switching that up recently.
* The dough will rise a bunch after going into the baking pan. If you want it super-fluffy, try not to touch the dough itself while moving it to the oven, as that'll make it deflate (it'll still be soft and fluffy, just a bit less so). Also make sure to cover it during the rise with something large enough that it won't touch the rising dough. If you want it to deflate, though, and be normal-bread-levels of fluffy, then that's less crucial.

## Ingredients

* 1 cup water
* 2 tbsp white sugar (1 tbsp, first and second round)
* 1 tsp active yeast (first round)
* 1 tsp instant yeast (second round)
* ~300g white flour (140g for the initial sponge in the first round, 160g to finish the dough in the second round, and a bit for dusting)
* 60g gluten (first round)
* 2 tsp salt (second round)
* 2 tsp dried rosemary (second round) (half finely crushed in a mortar and pestle, half the way it is when it comes out of the jar)

## Supplies

* 1 cup measuring cup for water
* Stand mixer w/ bowl and dough hook (or mixing bowl and clean hands)
* Mixing spoon (even if you have the mixer, as it's the easiest way to mix the initial sponge)
* Scale for weighing flour (~5-gram precision or better)
* 1 tsp measuring spoon for yeast & sugar
* 1 tbsp measuring spoon for sugar if you're feeling lazy and don't want to count to 3.
* Mortar and pestle for rosemary, if you want some of it ground more finely.
* 8" cake pan, or similar
* Parchment paper to line aforementioned pan
* Oven capable of fitting that pan + risen bread at 425F

## Instructions

1. Mix the water, 1 tbsp sugar, and 1 tsp active yeast in the bowl of a stand mixer until smooth. Just use a spoon; you won't need the mixer itself until after the first rise, you're just using the bowl so you don't need to transfer between bowls any more than necessary.
2. Mix in 60g of gluten and 140g of white flour. It should be a bit thicker than "batter" but nowhere near as thick as "dough".
3. Cover and let rise for 1-3 hours, up to overnight if that's most convenient. I normally aim for 2-3 hours but the recipe on which this is based said overnight is fine and it's worked for me with a slightly different recipe.
4. Mix in the other 1 tbsp of white sugar, then the 1 tsp of instant yeast. Mix that well so it's as dissolved and dispersed as possible.
5. Mix in the rosemary and salt.
6. Put the bowl in the stand mixer with the dough hook and mix in the rest of the flour on low speed.
7. Keep it mixing until it forms a fairly cohesive mass. May need to add a tiny bit of water or flour to adjust stickiness as you feel appropriate.
8. Coat lightly with flour, then put into a parchment-paper-lined pan. I use an 8" stainless steel cake pan, but other sizes would presumably work, it's just what I have handy. The dough is a bit too soft and billowy to work well without a pan, I'm guessing, although I haven't yet tried.
9. Cover with an oversized bowl or whatever other suitable protective container you have handy.
10. Let rise for a few hours. It'll get quite voluminous due to the second round of yeast. Up to you if you deflate it at all before baking; depends on what size bubbles you want inside.
11. Preheat oven to 400-425. I normally set the oven to 350 for the pan rise, then bump it up to the baking temp shortly before putting it in the oven.
12. Bake for ~20-25 minutes, until the internal temperature reaches ~180F. Exact baking time will depend on temperature and how puffy the bread is so it may take a bit of experimentation.
13. Let cool and enjoy.
