# Pecan Pie Cookies

## Ingredients

* 2 cups dark brown sugar
* 1 cup salted butter, softened/room temperature
* 1 tablespoon vanilla extract
* 2 large eggs
* 1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
* 1/2 teaspoon salt
* 1/2 teaspoon baking soda
* 1 1/2 cups pecan halves
* 1 cup dark chocolate chips

## Supplies
* Large mixing bowl
* 1 cup measuring cup
* 1/2 cup measuring cup
* 1 tablespoon measuring spoon
* 1/2 teaspoon measuring spoon
* Mixing spoon
* Baking sheet
* Parchment paper
* Tub for refrigerating dough

## Instructions
 
1. In a large mixing bowl, mix brown sugar, butter and vanilla until light and fluffy.
2. Add eggs and mix.
3. Add flour, salt and baking soda and mix.
4. Stir in pecans and chocolate chips.
5. Refrigerate dough for 30+ minutes. Will last at least a day or two in the fridge, but I don't know for sure how long.
6. Preheat oven to 350°F.
7. Line cookie sheet with parchment paper.
8. Put cookie dough on the sheet. One standard spoon's worth of dough seems to work, rolled into a ball. The cookies will spread out quite a bit, so make sure to space them out quite a bit. I put 8 on a standard baking sheet (three rows, 3/2/3).
9. Optional: Put a pecan half on top of each ball of dough.
10. Bake 8-11 minutes. After 8, they seem mostly done but one or two were still a bit raw in the center. After 11, they were a bit stiffer/less gooey but seemed cooked enough I felt comfortable leaving them out in a ziploc instead of refrigerating them.
11. Allow to cool 1 minute. Transfer to a wire cooling rack and allow to cool completely. Store in an airtight container.
