# Angel food cake

Based on [Alton Brown's recipe](https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/alton-brown/angel-food-cake-recipe-1938726) and [Sally's Baking Recipes](https://sallysbakingaddiction.com/angel-food-cake/#tasty-recipes-71596)

## Ingredients
* 375g sugar
* 135g cake flour
* 1/4 teaspoon table salt or 1/3 tsp kosher salt (only go with the kosher salt if you blend it into the flour/sugar)
* 12 egg whites (the closer to room temperature the better)
* 1/4 cup warm water
* 1 tbsp vanilla extract
* 1 1/2 teaspoons cream of tartar

## Instructions

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
1. Blend sugar until it's super fine.
1. Set aside half of the sugar, leave the other half in the blender.
1. Add the flour and salt to the blender and blend a bit more to get it all mixed together well.
1. In a large bowl or stand mixer, whisk together the egg whites, water, vanilla extract, and cream of tartar.
1. After 2 minutes, switch to a hand mixer. Slowly sift the set-aside sugar, beating continuously at medium speed. You want the tips falling over a little bit when you lift the whisk out, but you really don't want the cone of meringue itself collapsing a meaningful amount.
1. Once you have achieved medium-firm peaks, sift enough of the flour mixture in to dust the top of the foam. Using a spatula fold in gently. Continue until all of the flour mixture is incorporated.
1. Carefully spoon mixture into an ungreased tube pan. Bake for 35-40 minutes before checking for doneness with a wooden skewer. (When inserted halfway between the inner and outer wall, the skewer should come out dry).
1. Cool upside down on cooling rack for at least an hour before removing from pan by sliding a knife around the sides to free it.
