## White bread

Main difference between this and the original is that I swapped some of the flour for straight powdered gluten and decreased the overall flour amount, as I'm never able to get more than 5 cups incorporated. The result is very light and chewy, with a slightly-crunchy/crumbly crust.

Definitely not a fancy artisan sourdough boule or anything like that. This is more like the perfect homemade Wonder Bread replacement, and is great for sandwiches, toast, or just eating on its own (as long as it's fairly fresh).

Update: Had the last from this batch on the 19th of May and it was still chewy and soft. Always kept in airtight ziploc bags (after cooling to room temperature, of course), and used the bags when cutting it to minimize human contact with the loaves to minimize the chance of mold. Overall seems to keep really well, given that it has no preservatives or whatever in it (not that I have anything against preservatives, it's just that the only preservative I have in the kitchen is straight phenol and it's generally not recommended that you eat that these days).

### Supplies
* Measuring cup
* Measuring spoons
* Large bowl
* Damp cloth
* 2 9x5 bread pans
* Cooling rack

### Ingredients

* 2 cups warm water (110 degrees F/45 degrees C)
* 2/3 cup white sugar
* 1 1/2 tablespoons active dry yeast
* 1 1/2 teaspoons salt
* 1/4 cup vegetable oil
* 1 cup gluten powder
* 4 cups unbleached all-purpose flour

### Instructions

1. In a large bowl, dissolve the sugar in warm water, and then stir in yeast. Allow to proof until yeast resembles a creamy foam, around 10 minutes.
2. Mix salt and oil into the yeast.
3. Mix in gluten and flour one cup at a time, starting with all of the gluten and two cups of flour. Mix/knead dough on a lightly floured surface until smooth.
4. Place in a well oiled bowl, and turn dough to coat.
5. Cover with a damp cloth. 
6. Allow to rise until doubled in bulk, about 1 hour.
7. Preheat oven to 350F. Having the oven on while the bread is sitting on the stove will help its last rise a bit.
8. Punch dough down. Knead for a few minutes, and divide in half. 
9. Shape into loaves, and place into two well oiled 9x5 inch loaf pans. 
10. Allow to rise for 30 minutes, or until dough has risen 1 inch above pans.
11. Bake at 350F for 30 minutes.
12. Allow to cool on a cooling rack, then store in airtight bags (you can cut the loaves in half and put them in four 1-gallon ziplocs, or each loaf will fit in the massive 2.5-gallon bags).
