# DoubleTree cookies, but I only have self-rising flour

## Supplies/tools (in no particular order)

* Baking sheet
* Parchment paper
* Mixing bowl
* 1/4 cup scoop
* 1 cup scoop (if you don't want to scoop 9 quarter-cup scoops of flour)
* 1/3 cup scoop (if you want to be really precise with the chocolate chips)
* 1/4 teaspoon
* 1 teaspoon (if you don't want to measure 5 quarter-teaspoons of vanilla extract)
* Mixing bowl
* Mixing spoon (the official recipe calls for a stand mixer, but if you're a peasant like me and don't have one, a sturdy spoon works just as well)
* Scooping spoon (for balling the cookies for baking)

## Ingredients (in order of use)

### Step 2
* 1/2 pound butter, softened (2 sticks)
* 3/4 cup + 1 tablespoon granulated sugar
* 3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
### Step 3
* 2 large eggs
* 1 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
### Step 4
* 2 cups self-rising flour
* 1/4 cup gluten
* 1/2 cup rolled oats
* 1 teaspoon salt (can probably omit this as there's salt in the flour)
* Pinch cinnamon
### Step 5
* 2 2/3 cups Nestle Tollhouse semi-sweet chocolate chips
* 1 3/4 cups chopped walnuts 

## Instructions

1. Preheat oven to 300°F.
2. Cream butter, sugar and brown sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer on medium speed for about 2 minutes. 
3. Add eggs and vanilla, blending with mixer on low speed for 30 seconds, then medium speed for about 2 minutes, or until light and fluffy, scraping down bowl.
4. With mixer on low speed, add flour, gluten, oats, salt and cinnamon, blending for about 45 seconds. Don’t overmix. 
5. Remove bowl from mixer and stir in chocolate chips and walnuts.
6. Portion dough with a scoop (about 3 tablespoons) onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper about 2 inches apart. 
7. Bake for 20 to 23 minutes, or until edges are golden brown and center is still soft.
8. Remove from oven and cool on baking sheet for about 1 hour.

## Dough storage

This recipe bakes at a lower temperature than normal cookies (300 vs. 350), so that makes it more forgiving in terms of compensating for colder dough with a longer bake time.

I stored the dough in the refrigerator overnight prior to baking due to scheduling issues, and from fridge temperature of ~38F, baking 28-30 minutes works pretty well. 

The original recipe also says it'll work with frozen dough (presumably formed into balls prior to freezing), although again you'll have to bake them for longer. It doesn't give a specific time, so I'd recommend baking from fresh dough the first time to learn what they look like when they're done.
