# DoubleTree Signature Cookie Recipe

Based on [this recipe released by Hilton](https://newsroom.hilton.com/static-doubletree-reveals-cookie-recipe.htm). Slightly modified.

## Supplies/tools (in no particular order)

* Baking sheet
* Parchment paper
* Mixing bowl
* 1/4 cup scoop
* 1 cup scoop (if you don't want to scoop 9 quarter-cup scoops of flour)
* 1/3 cup scoop (if you want to be really precise with the chocolate chips)
* 1/4 teaspoon
* 1 teaspoon (if you don't want to measure 5 quarter-teaspoons of vanilla extract)
* Mixing bowl
* Mixing spoon (the official recipe calls for a stand mixer, but if you're a peasant like me and don't have one, a sturdy spoon works just as well)
* Scooping spoon (for balling the cookies for baking)

## Ingredients (in order of use)

* 1/2 pound butter, softened (2 sticks)
* 300 grams granulated sugar
* 40 grams molasses
* 2 large eggs
* 1 tablespoon vanilla extract
* 1/4 teaspoon bottled lemon juice
* 300 g flour
* 55 g rolled oats
* 1 teaspoon baking soda
* 1 teaspoon salt
* 1/4 teaspoon ceylon cinnamon
* 1 bag (~286 g) Ghirardelli dark chocolate chips
* 100 g rolled oats
* 100 g finely-chopped walnuts

## Instructions

1. Preheat oven to 300°F.
1. Cream butter, sugar and molasses in a bowl.
1. Add eggs, vanilla and lemon juice, blending until mixed and fluffy.
1. Add flour, 55 grams of oats, baking soda, salt and cinnamon. Mix but don’t overmix.
1. Split into two batches. In my case this was two batches each almost exactly 500 grams.
1. Split the chocolate chips in two and mix half into each batch.
1. In one batch, mix in the other 100 grams of oats.
1. In the other batch, mix in the walnuts.
1. Portion dough with a scoop (about 2 tablespoons) onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper about 2 inches apart.
1. Bake for 20 to 23 minutes, or until edges are golden brown and center is still soft.
1. Remove from oven and cool on baking sheet for about 1 hour.

## Dough storage

This recipe bakes at a lower temperature than normal cookies (300 vs. 350), so that makes it more forgiving in terms of compensating for colder dough with a longer bake time.

I stored the dough in the refrigerator overnight prior to baking due to scheduling issues, and from fridge temperature of ~38F, baking 23-25 minutes works pretty well.

The original recipe also says it'll work with frozen dough (presumably formed into balls prior to freezing), although again you'll have to bake them for longer. It doesn't give a specific time, so I'd recommend baking from fresh dough the first time to learn what they look like when they're done.
