# Bread

This is my 7th round of making the [King Arthur Simple Rustic Loaf](https://www.kingarthurbaking.com/recipes/a-simple-rustic-loaf-recipe), with more changes each time (so it's a fair bit different from the original recipe at this point).

It's a two-stage recipe, with a sponge made first that's then finished into a dough before the in-pan rise. A normal sponge recipe would have yeast added at the start and sugar (if any is used) in the second stage, but in order to speed things up and get it to rise a tough more I add both yeast and sugar in each stage. I use regular dried yeast for the sponge and then instant dried yeast for the dough to help it get more evenly incorporated, but that's likely not necessary. Definitely experiment with this one; this is just one attempt from my playing around with this recipe so I'll undoubtedly change more stuff the next time I try it.

This is written based on using a stand mixer; I'm sure it'd work just fine without one but that's how I've been making it.

## Ingredients

### Sponge
* 1/2 tbsp yeast
* 1 1/2 tbsp white sugar
* 1 1/2 cup water
* 100 g white flour
* 60 g wheat flour
* 90 g gluten

### Dough
* 1 1/2 tbsp white sugar
* 1/2 tbsp instant yeast
* 1 tbsp salt
* 290 g white flour

### Pan prep
* 1-2 tbsp flour to coat the ball of dough
* Your preferred neutral-ish oil for coating the pan (I use olive, vegetable, or peanut oil, depending on what's convenient), or parchment paper

## Equipment
* Stand mixer w/ bowl and dough hook
* Spoon for mixing the sponge
* Measuring cups and spoons
* Pan. I made this recipe with [this Lurch silicone oval pan](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08WLXCBHT), and I made a previous very similar and same-dough-amount version with [this Lurch silicone rectangular pan](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B005FUAQ54). You could probably also use a 9" or 10" circular pie/cake pan with parchment paper; I made a previous version 2/3 the size of this one using an 8" circular cake pan with parchment paper instead of oil. There are also cheaper silicone pans available; I went with a known name brand to be on the safer side as my parrot could be killed by the wrong plastic getting heated to 400+F in my oven.
* Cover for sponge rise (tin foil or plastic wrap or a towel)
* Cover for dough rise (I use a box)

## Instructions

1. Mix the sugar and water from the sponge section together in a stand mixer bowl until the sugar is fully dissolved (doesn't actually need to be in the mixer yet, that's just to save dishes when you make the dough later on).
2. Mix in the sponge yeast.
3. Mix in the flour and gluten in the sponge section. Should be somewhere between a batter and a dough, thickness-wise.
4. Cover and let rise for a while (I let it rise for 90 minutes but that's just because that fit my schedule for the day).
5. Mix in the salt, sugar, and yeast (if using it) from the dough section.
6. Once that's well-incorporated, mix in the flour. I usually have to get most of it incorporated by hand prior to setting it going with the dough hook. If you scale up the recipe for multiple loaves at once that may not be necessary as the issue seems partly that it's at the lower end of how much my mixer is meant to work with.
7. Set it at low speed in the mixer with a dough hook until it forms a fairly clean ball.
8. Oil a pan (or line it with parchment paper).
9. Coat the dough ball in flour, shape it into the rough form of the pan (so, flattened ball for a circular pan, stretched ball for oval pan, longer log for rectangular pan, you get the idea), and put it in the oiled pan.
10. Let rise for a few hours, covered with something that gives enough space that the dough won't touch the cover (I use an upturned clear plastic storage box).
11. Preheat the oven to 400F. If you do this at the start of the in-pan rise, it'll speed up the rise.
12. Carefully move the pan into the oven. With silicone pans, I find it helps to put the pan on a metal baking sheet so that it gets jostled less while moving into the oven. If it gets too shaken or squished, it'll deflate somewhat and end up a bit denser.
13. Bake for 25-30 minutes at 400F. (In my specific oven, it takes 28 minutes.)
14. Take out of pan and let cool on a cooling rack. You can cut it just a few minutes after it comes out of the oven, although it's probably best to let it wait a bit longer (I needed to make a sandwich and get back to my desk so I didn't wait very long).
