# Bread

This is my 32nd recent batch of bread. It turned out okay. It's a fairly sugary recipe as I'm lazy and want it to rise quickly.

This is written based on using a stand mixer; I'm sure it'd work just fine without one but that's how I've been making it.

Recipe is for one loaf; you can multiply it and make multiple but that's boring as they'll all be the same.

## Ingredients

### First stuff in the bowl:
* 300g water, 110F
* 1 tbsp white sugar
* 2 tsp active dry yeast
* 1 tsp kosher salt
* 50g melted smart balance

### Once proofed, add:
* 3g diastatic malt powder
* 75g gluten
* 150g home-milled rye
* 100g home-milled red
* 50g home-milled white

### After first rise, knead in:
* 3 tbsp white sugar
* 1g diastatic malt powder
* 1/4 cup seed mix
* 100g home-milled white flour (I recommend using store-bought white flour here instead as it makes the loaf a touch fluffier)

### For pan rise and baking:
* Water

## Equipment
* Stand mixer w/ bowl and dough hook
* Spoon for mixing the sponge
* Measuring cups and spoons
* Bread baking pan (I use a silicone one; if you use a metal one you'll also need some sort of anti-stick stuff)
* Cover for first rise (I use tin foil)
* Cover for pan rise (I use a plastic storage box)
* Mug for pan-rise humidity
* Pan for oven humidification

## Instructions

1. Mix the stuff in the "first stuff" section. Let it sit until you see a few bubbles.
2. Mix in the "once proofed" stuff. I normally do this with a spoon as it's wet enough the mixer isn't necessary.
3. Cover and let rise for a half-hour or so.
4. Mix in the "after first rise" stuff. Mix for a few minutes in the mixer (or knead by hand).
5. Shape into a loaf and put in the pan.
6. Let rise covered, ideally with some source of humidity added (I rise it underneath an upside-down plastic box and I put a mug of boiling water next to it under the box). I normally do this on my stovetop while my oven preheats to 350F; if you have a nicer oven than I do (that is, one that doesn't leak a lot of heat), that won't make much of a difference.
7. Preheat the oven with a pan full of water on a shelf below where the bread will go. Make sure it isn't too close to the loaf pan; if it is it'll cool that particular area of the oven too much and the bread won't bake properly. If you want to be on the safe side, just omit the water or have it on the same shelf as far away as possible.
8. Once the bread has risen a reasonable amount, carefully move it to the oven. Because of the fast rise the structure is pretty weak at this point; if you jostle it too much it might collapse a fair bit. It'll still be edible if that happens but noticeably denser and not necessarily big enough for good sandwiches.
9. Bake until a thermometer stuck into the center hits ~190. In my experience, this is around 40-43 minutes, depending on how risen it is. Fluffier bread takes a bit longer as the inside is more insulated.
10. Take out of pan and let cool on a cooling rack.
