# Bread

This is my 13th round of making the [King Arthur Simple Rustic Loaf](https://www.kingarthurbaking.com/recipes/a-simple-rustic-loaf-recipe), with more changes each time (so it's a fair bit different from the original recipe at this point).

This is written based on using a stand mixer; I'm sure it'd work just fine without one but that's how I've been making it.

Half of the flour is home-milled from hard white wheat berries. You can replace that with regular white flour, wheat flour, or a mix of the two, if you don't feel like going a couple hundred years back in time.

This recipe ended up a touch drier and more crumbly than I usually prefer. I'm guessing that's due to having a bit less gluten than my previous batch, and baking a touch longer (the internal temperature was only up to ~170F after my normal 25@400 and I usually aim for 180-190). Next time I'll try with more gluten.

## Ingredients

### Sponge
* 1 tbsp yeast
* 2 cups water
* 200 g home milled flour
* 70 g gluten
* 1 tbsp dried rosemary, half of it crushed 

### Dough
* 1/4 cup white sugar
* 1 tbsp salt
* 325 g white flour
* 125 g home milled flour 

### Pan prep
* 1-2 tbsp flour to coat the ball of dough

## Equipment
* Stand mixer w/ bowl and dough hook
* Spoon for mixing the sponge
* Measuring cups and spoons
* Pans. I made this recipe in a pair of silicone bread pans the size of a normal loaf pan. Probably not going to use them again as they always seem to smoke up an annoying amount and the ventilation in my kitchen isn't great. Regular loaf pans should work just fine, though you may need to adjust the bake time a bit.
* Cover for sponge rise (tin foil or plastic wrap or a towel)
* Cover for dough rise (I use wet paper towels)

## Instructions

1. Mix the yeast, rosemary, and water from the sponge section together in a stand mixer bowl until the sugar is fully dissolved (doesn't actually need to be in the mixer yet, that's just to save dishes when you make the dough later on).
2. Mix in the flour and gluten in the sponge section. Should be somewhere between a batter and a dough, thickness-wise.
3. Cover and let rise for a while (in this case, it was ~8 hours overnight).
4. Mix in the sugar and salt from the dough section.
5. Once that's well-incorporated, mix in the flour.
6. Set it at low speed in the mixer with a dough hook until it forms a fairly clean ball.
7. Coat the dough ball in flour, shape it into the rough form of the pan or pans, and put it in the pan (make sure to oil the pan first if it isn't non-stick silicone or something similar).
8. Let rise for a few hours, covered with something that gives enough space that the dough won't stick to the cover (I used wet blue paper shop towels).
9. Preheat the oven to 400F. If you do this at the start of the in-pan rise, it'll speed up the rise.
10. Bake for 25-30 minutes at 400F.
11. Take out of pan and let cool on a cooling rack.
