Based on [My Cake School's Milk Chocolate Cake](https://www.mycakeschool.com/milk-chocolate-cake-recipe/)

## Ingredients/supplies

### Cake

* 200g milk chocolate chips
* 1 1/3 cup milk
* 285g cups cake flour
* 1 teaspoon baking soda
* 1/2 teaspoon salt
* 1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, slightly softened
* 1 1/2 cups (300g) sugar
* 2 large eggs, room temperature
* 1 tablespoon vanilla

### Ganache

* 8 oz Milk Chocolate Chips
* 4 oz Heavy Cream

### Frosting

* 3 sticks unsalted butter, softened (NOT melted)
* 8 ounces milk chocolate chips
* 5 cups (575g) powdered sugar
* 2 teaspoons vanilla extract
* 4 tablespoons cream
* 1/2 teaspoon salt

## Instructions

### Cake

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.
1. Grease and flour two 9x2 inch pans
1. In a medium size bowl, add milk chocolate chips and milk. Melt and stir together, either in the microwave (carefully) or a double boiler. Let the chocolate cool down slightly before using.
1. In a medium size bowl, add the flour, baking soda and salt. Whisk at least 30 seconds to blend and then set aside.
1. Mix butter until smooth. Slowly add sugar and keep mixing until fluffy.
1. Add vanilla, keep mixing.
1. Add eggs one at a time, mixing until the yolk completely blends in.
1. While mixing the whole time, add 1/3 of the liquid chocolate, then 1/2 of the flour mixture, then 1/3 of the liquid chocolate, then 1/2 of the flour mixture, then the last 1/3 of the liquid chocolate.
1. Pour into the prepared pans and chuck in the oven.
1. Bake at 350 degrees for 22 to 24 minutes, until a toothpick comes out clean.

### Ganache

1. In a medium size bowl, add milk chocolate chips and cream. Melt and stir together, either in the microwave (carefully) or a double boiler. Let the chocolate cool down slightly before using.
1. Let cool until it starts to thicken a bit, about 15 minutes.
1. Glaze the cake layers with a thin coating, and save the rest for decorating the outside.

### Frosting

1. In a medium size bowl, add milk chocolate chips and cream. Melt and stir together, either in the microwave (carefully) or a double boiler. Let the chocolate cool down slightly before using. (You may sense a pattern...)
1. Beat the butter until softened and smooth.
1. Add the powdered sugar 1 cup at a time into the butter.
1. Add the milk chocolate and milk mixture.
1. Add vanilla.
1. Beat for 3 to 4 minutes and it will become smooth and creamy. Add another tablespoon of cream if necessary to achieve the desired consistency.

## Assembly

1. Make sure the cake layers are cooled or else everything else will just melt into a messy puddle.
1. Toss the first one on a plate.
1. Coat the sides and top with a thin coating of ganache.
1. Put a thinline of ganache around the outside, forming a lip to hold stuff in the middle.
1. Fill that area with either frosting or whatever tasty filling you want to use.
1. Toss the second one on top and thinly coat with ganache.
1. Frost the whole thing.
1. Decorate as you see fit with the remaining frosting, ganache, and whatever else you feel like.
